As a leaf blower.Most people don't understand the Intricacies of my work.Like, Yeah, if you want dirt blown from one part of your property to another part of your property, or potentially under someoneElses property, I'm your guy.It's productive work, and the world is a better place because of it.And anytime people hear my leaf blower, and makes them instantly like me.

In the olden days, they just use leaf Blowers for blowing leaves.But now, with modern day advances and leaf blowing technology, we use them to blow dirt, dust, gravel, bare pavement.Sometimes We'll use them to blow air out of people's yards.I've never spent less than 2 1 2 hours blowing a single area.I mean, this thing might be on for a long time outside your window, but at least it's loud too.

Ah.

I love being of service to my country, keeping the streets clean.I can feel people's gratitude.

Second mothers.

If you do the math, if a yard takes 1 2 an hour to Mow, then it needs at least three hours of leaf blowing, regardless if There's leaves in the yard or not.When I'm blowing around dirt, dust and lawn clippings.Where does it go?Basically just vanishes into thin air.When people hear the sound of my leaf blower, they relax.Their anxiety levels go down.It's basically like listening to calm running water in nature.

What's up?And Jordan, What's up?Bro,Yeah, there's been such a great weekend.Like, how are things with you?Yeah,

today I've got my work cut out for me.I'll be blowing all the dirt out of a dirt parking lot.I wonder What's under the dirt.So if there's one complaint I hear about leaf Blowers, it's always, I wish it could be louder.

But I've done some Reconfiguring on my motor to make my unit louder.Sometimes I like to listen to music while I work.Helps me stay in the zone.Today I'm listening to a Leafblower Soundtrack.

Where would people rather have all the dust and debris from their yard?Probably on their neighbors car.Pointlessly blowing things around for hours on end outside your window.My way of serving my country, and I'm happy to do it.

You're not actually doing anything.Can you please stop?

Yeah.Like, if you need dirt blown from one part of your property to another part of your property, or potential end to someoneElses property from your guy

me.And I want to thank the sponsor of this Video, Sunwarrior.I've been religiously rocking Sun warriors, plant based collagen building peptides and Ormus greens.Amongst other things, the collagen building peptides help slow down the signs of aging, build strong bones and give you stronger hair, which I'm deemed to be pretty important.

Enormous greens are loaded with organic greens and Probiotics help your body Detoxify, Alkalinize and fight free radicals.Overall, I love Sun warrior products because they support me to have a healthy, fit, high energy lifestyle.If you want to join me in grabbing your son warrior collagen building protein peptides enormous screens, just go to Sunwarrior COM JP and get 20 off by using the discount code JP.